Add OSDK upgrade guide for 4.8 (#33613)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/osdk-upgrading-v1-4-0.adoc

. For Ansible- and Helm-based Operator projects, update the `helm-operator` and `ansible-operator` URLs in the `Makefile`:

** For Ansible-based Operator projects, change:
+
[source,terminal]
----
https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/releases/download/v1.3.0/ansible-operator-v1.3.0-$(ARCHOPER)-$(OSOPER)
----
+
to:
+
[source,terminal]
----
https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/releases/download/v1.3.1/ansible-operator_$(OS)_$(ARCH)
----

** For Helm-based Operator projects, change:
+
[source,terminal]
----
https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/releases/download/v1.3.0/helm-operator-v1.3.0-$(ARCHOPER)-$(OSOPER)
----
+
to:
+
[source,terminal]
----
https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/releases/download/v1.3.1/helm-operator_$(OS)_$(ARCH)
----

. For Ansible- and Helm-based Operator projects, update the `helm-operator`, `ansible-operator`, and `kustomize` rules in the `Makefile`. These rules download a local binary but do not use it if a global binary is present.

> See the diff in link:https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4407[operator-framework/operator-sdk#4407] for guidance on how to fix these rules.

Author: @estroz I need some help clarifying what changes should take place here. I see the changes in the Makefiles like https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4407/files#diff-251566484dfa69f6f09a037732f18fc69cda8bd42c0cfc691c8900638dcf3e4e, but if we can show a more specific/shorter diff in-line here (like elsewhere in this guide), that would be nicer.

Reviewer: Ansible:
```diff
 PATH  := $(PATH):$(PWD)/bin
 SHELL := env PATH=$(PATH) /bin/sh
-OS := $(shell uname -s | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')
-ARCH := $(shell uname -m | sed 's/x86_64/amd64/')
+OS    = $(shell uname -s | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')
+ARCH  = $(shell uname -m | sed 's/x86_64/amd64/')
+OSOPER   = $(shell uname -s | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]' | sed 's/darwin/apple-darwin/' | sed 's/linux/linux-gnu/')
+ARCHOPER = $(shell uname -m )
 
-# Download kustomize locally if necessary, preferring the $(pwd)/bin path over global if both exist.
-.PHONY: kustomize
-KUSTOMIZE = $(shell pwd)/bin/kustomize
 kustomize:
-ifeq (,$(wildcard $(KUSTOMIZE)))
-ifeq (,$(shell which kustomize 2>/dev/null))
+ifeq (, $(shell which kustomize 2>/dev/null))
 	@{ \
 	set -e ;\
-	mkdir -p $(dir $(KUSTOMIZE)) ;\
-	curl -sSLo - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/kustomize/v3.5.4/kustomize_v3.5.4_$(OS)_$(ARCH).tar.gz | \
-	tar xzf - -C bin/ ;\
+	mkdir -p bin ;\
+	curl -sSLo - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/kustomize/v3.5.4/kustomize_v3.5.4_$(OS)_$(ARCH).tar.gz | tar xzf - -C bin/ ;\
 	}
+KUSTOMIZE=$(realpath ./bin/kustomize)
 else
-KUSTOMIZE = $(shell which kustomize)
-endif
+KUSTOMIZE=$(shell which kustomize)
 endif
 
-# Download ansible-operator locally if necessary, preferring the $(pwd)/bin path over global if both exist.
-.PHONY: ansible-operator
-ANSIBLE_OPERATOR = $(shell pwd)/bin/ansible-operator
 ansible-operator:
-ifeq (,$(wildcard $(ANSIBLE_OPERATOR)))
-ifeq (,$(shell which ansible-operator 2>/dev/null))
+ifeq (, $(shell which ansible-operator 2>/dev/null))
 	@{ \
 	set -e ;\
-	mkdir -p $(dir $(ANSIBLE_OPERATOR)) ;\
-	curl -sSLo $(ANSIBLE_OPERATOR) https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/releases/download/v1.3.0/ansible-operator_$(OS)_$(ARCH) ;\
-	chmod +x $(ANSIBLE_OPERATOR) ;\
+	mkdir -p bin ;\
+	curl -LO https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/releases/download/v1.3.0/ansible-operator-v1.3.0-$(ARCHOPER)-$(OSOPER) ;\
+	mv ansible-operator-v1.3.0-$(ARCHOPER)-$(OSOPER) ./bin/ansible-operator ;\
+	chmod +x ./bin/ansible-operator ;\
 	}
+ANSIBLE_OPERATOR=$(realpath ./bin/ansible-operator)
 else
-ANSIBLE_OPERATOR = $(shell which ansible-operator)
-endif
+ANSIBLE_OPERATOR=$(shell which ansible-operator)
 endif
```
Helm:
```diff
 PATH  := $(PATH):$(PWD)/bin
 SHELL := env PATH=$(PATH) /bin/sh
-OS := $(shell uname -s | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')
-ARCH := $(shell uname -m | sed 's/x86_64/amd64/')
+OS    = $(shell uname -s | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')
+ARCH  = $(shell uname -m | sed 's/x86_64/amd64/')
+OSOPER   = $(shell uname -s | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]' | sed 's/darwin/apple-darwin/' | sed 's/linux/linux-gnu/')
+ARCHOPER = $(shell uname -m )
 
-# Download kustomize locally if necessary, preferring the $(pwd)/bin path over global if both exist.
-.PHONY: kustomize
-KUSTOMIZE = $(shell pwd)/bin/kustomize
 kustomize:
-ifeq (,$(wildcard $(KUSTOMIZE)))
-ifeq (,$(shell which kustomize 2>/dev/null))
+ifeq (, $(shell which kustomize 2>/dev/null))
 	@{ \
 	set -e ;\
-	mkdir -p $(dir $(KUSTOMIZE)) ;\
-	curl -sSLo - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/kustomize/v3.5.4/kustomize_v3.5.4_$(OS)_$(ARCH).tar.gz | \
-	tar xzf - -C bin/ ;\
+	mkdir -p bin ;\
+	curl -sSLo - https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/download/kustomize/v3.5.4/kustomize_v3.5.4_$(OS)_$(ARCH).tar.gz | tar xzf - -C bin/ ;\
 	}
+KUSTOMIZE=$(realpath ./bin/kustomize)
 else
-KUSTOMIZE = $(shell which kustomize)
-endif
+KUSTOMIZE=$(shell which kustomize)
 endif
 
-# Download helm-operator locally if necessary, preferring the $(pwd)/bin path over global if both exist.
-.PHONY: helm-operator
-HELM_OPERATOR = $(shell pwd)/bin/helm-operator
 helm-operator:
-ifeq (,$(wildcard $(HELM_OPERATOR)))
-ifeq (,$(shell which helm-operator 2>/dev/null))
+ifeq (, $(shell which helm-operator 2>/dev/null))
 	@{ \
 	set -e ;\
-	mkdir -p $(dir $(HELM_OPERATOR)) ;\
-	curl -sSLo $(HELM_OPERATOR) https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/releases/download/v1.3.0/helm-operator_$(OS)_$(ARCH) ;\
-	chmod +x $(HELM_OPERATOR) ;\
+	mkdir -p bin ;\
+	curl -LO https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/releases/download/v1.3.0/helm-operator-v1.3.0-$(ARCHOPER)-$(OSOPER) ;\
+	mv helm-operator-v1.3.0-$(ARCHOPER)-$(OSOPER) ./bin/helm-operator ;\
+	chmod +x ./bin/helm-operator ;\
 	}
+HELM_OPERATOR=$(realpath ./bin/helm-operator)
 else
-HELM_OPERATOR = $(shell which helm-operator)
-endif
+HELM_OPERATOR=$(shell which helm-operator)
 endif
```

Reviewer 2: hey @estroz and @adellape , 

I noticed the URL for downloading `helm-operator`/`ansible-operator` binary in the migration guide does include `v1.3.0` in the path:
> curl -LO https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/releases/download/v1.3.0/helm-operator-v1.3.0-$(ARCHOPER)-$(OSOPER) ;

Should we change that to `v1.8.0` in the path to match up the downstream SDK version?

Author: Updated to `v1.8.0`.

      path: /readyz
      port: 6789
    initialDelaySeconds: 5
    periodSeconds: 10
----
+
.Example for Helm-based Operator projects
[source,yaml]
----
  livenessProbe:
    httpGet:
      path: /healthz
      port: 8081
    initialDelaySeconds: 15
    periodSeconds: 20
  readinessProbe:
    httpGet:
      path: /readyz
      port: 8081
    initialDelaySeconds: 5
    periodSeconds: 10
----

. For Go-based Operator projects, update the `PROJECT` file `plugins` object to use `manifests` and `scorecard` objects.
+
The `manifests` and `scorecard` plug-ins that create Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) and scorecard manifests, respectively, now have plug-in objects that direct `create` subcommands to create related files. While the old Go-based plug-in configuration object is still supported, these new objects will be useful in the future as configuration options are added to their respective plug-ins:
+
.Old configuration
[source,yaml]
----
version: 3-alpha
...
plugins:
  go.sdk.operatorframework.io/v2-alpha: {}
----
+
.New configuration
[source,yaml]
----
version: 3-alpha
...
plugins:
  manifests.sdk.operatorframework.io/v2: {}
  scorecard.sdk.operatorframework.io/v2: {}
----

> . For Ansible- and Helm-based Operator projects, add `manifests` and `scorecard` objects to the `Makefile`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. For Ansible- and Helm-based Operator projects, add `manifests` and `scorecard` plugin objects to your PROJECT.
```

+
The `manifests` and `scorecard` plug-ins that create Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) and scorecard manifests, respectively, now have plug-in objects that direct `create` subcommands to create related files. While not necessary to add, these new objects will be useful in the future as configuration options are added to their respective plug-ins:
+
[source,yaml]
----
version: 3-alpha
...
plugins:
  manifests.sdk.operatorframework.io/v2: {}
  scorecard.sdk.operatorframework.io/v2: {}
----

. Move the positional directory argument `.` in the `make` target for `docker-build`.
+
The directory argument `.` in the `docker-build` target was moved to the last positional argument to align with `podman` CLI expectations, which makes substitution cleaner:
+
.Old target
[source,terminal]
----
docker-build:
  docker build . -t ${IMG}
----
+
.New target
[source,terminal]
----
docker-build:

>   docker build -t ${IMG} .

Reviewer 4: would it be helpful to mention the `sed` command with which the users can make this change? Like:
```
sed -i 's/docker build . -t ${IMG}/docker build -t ${IMG} ./' $(git grep -l 'docker.*build \. ')
```
Reference PR: https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4466
